Lab Programs list for System Software and Operating Systems Lab as 
specified by VTU for 5th Semester students:

LEX and YACC Programs:
Design, develop, and execute the following programs using LEX:
1.a) Program to count the number of characters, words, spaces and lines 
in a given input file.
b) Program to count the numbers of comment lines in a given C program. 
Also eliminate them and copy the resulting program into separate file.
2. a) Program to recognize a valid arithmetic expression and to recognize 
the identifiers and operators present. Print them separately.
b) Program to recognize whether a given sentence is simple or compound.
3. Program to recognize and count the number of identifiers in a given
input file. 

Design, develop, and execute the following programs using YACC:
4. a) Program to recognize a valid arithmetic expression that uses 
operators +, -, * and /.
b) Program to recognize a valid variable, which starts with a letter,
followed by any number of letters or digits.
5. a) Program to evaluate an arithmetic expression involving operators
+, -, * and /.
b) Program to recognize strings ‘aaab’, ‘abbb’, ‘ab’ and ‘a’ using the 
grammar (anbn, n>= 0).
6. Program to recognize the grammar (anb, n>= 10).

UNIX Programming:
Design, develop, and execute the following programs:
7. a) Non-recursive shell script that accepts any number of arguments 
and prints them in the Reverse order, ( For example, if the script is 
named rargs, then executing rargs A B C should produce C B A on the 
standard output).
b) C program that creates a child process to read commands from the 
standard input and execute them (a minimal implementation of a shell–like 
program). You can assume that no arguments will be passed to the commands 
to be executed.
8. a) Shell script that accepts two file names as arguments, checks if the 
permissions for these files are identical and if the permissions are 
identical, outputs the common permissions, otherwise outputs each file 
name followed by its permissions.
b) C program to create a file with 16 bytes of arbitrary data from the 
beginning and another 16 bytes of arbitrary data from an offset of 48. 
Display the file contents to demonstrate how the hole in file is handled.
9. a) Shell script that accepts file names specified as arguments and 
creates a shell script that contains this file as well as the code to 
recreate these files. Thus if the script generated by your script is 
executed, it would recreate the original files(This is same as the 
“bundle” script described by Brain W. Kernighan and Rob Pike in “The 
Unix Programming Environment”, Prentice – Hall India).
b) C program to do the following: Using fork( ) create a child process. 
The child process prints its own process-id and id of its parent and then 
exits. The parent process waits for its child to finish (by executing 
the wait( )) and prints its own process-id and the id of its child process 
and then exits.

Operating Systems:
10. Design, develop and execute a program in C / C++ to simulate the 
working of Shortest Remaining Time and Round-Robin Scheduling Algorithms. 
Experiment with different quantum sizes for the Round-Robin algorithm. 
In all cases, determine the average turn-around time. The input can be 
read from key board or from a file.
11. Using OpenMP, Design, develop and run a multi-threaded program to 
generate and print Fibonacci Series. One thread has to generate the 
numbers up to the specified limit and another thread has to print them. 
Ensure proper synchronization.
12. Design, develop and run a program to implement the Banker’s Algorithm. 
Demonstrate its working with different data values.
